# Git Definitions

**Instructions: ** Define each of the following Git concepts.

* What is version control?  Why is it useful? Version control tracks changes made to a file from its initiation to the present. Version control successful logs all old copies of the file at each "commit" thus allowing the programmer to revert to previous states of the file as well as compare and track changes over time including bug inspection and the subsequent person responsible for such changes with time stamps to correlate with when symptoms of the big first emerged. 
* What is a branch and why would you use one? A branch allows for changes and implementations to the master branch to be made in parellel for if and when those changes are ready to be implemented or "merged." Good for experimenting on main code without consequences.
* What is a commit? What makes a good commit message? Commit is a command that saves changes made to the time the code was last edited. You can commit as often or as little as you like, but it's generally better to over-commit rather than under-commit. With each commit a message should be recorded specifying the nature of the change/changes the developer has made to the code since it's last instance of being committed. These changes are not only saved but time stamped and explicitly authored for reference. Commit messages should be clear, concise and specific. 
* What is a merge conflict? A merge conflict prevents the merging of branches for reasons that are usually explained by competing edits to the same code in different branches or if one branch has been deleted by another user before a branch meant to be merged could be merged by the respected developer working on it.